[[cls-4]]
== AP209 ed2 Data Model Organization

Due to the large scope of the Standard, the AP209 ed2 schema is large and complex.
Many views of the data model are presented in the application protocol (AP209 ed2)
and recommended practices (RP) documents. In addition to the figures in the RP,
<<fig3>> shown below illustrates refinements of the RP information to show how the
data model can be considered as smaller conceptual topics and how those topics are
related to the pilot models.

[[fig3]]
.3 AP209 ed2 Relationship Between Design and Analysis
image::img03.png[]

This view clearly illustrates how the design geometry (nominal shape) is related to
the abstracted analysis geometry (idealized analysis shape), the finite element
model (node shape) and analysis control and results (optional).

The pilot models in this Handbook use a native solver format (NASTRAN) as the FEM
information source and therefore no nominal design or idealized analysis geometry is
captured. However, the tools being developed under this pilot study will eventually
be required to include the AP209 ed2 constructs that are used to capture the full
FEA model definition and solution results. Full FEA model definition includes
associativity to nominal design geometry or the idealized analysis geometry used for
mesh generation and for mesh and geometry based loads and boundary condition
specifications.

Traditionally, FEA solver models do not specify a system of units but are required
to be internally consistent. Recent practices have begun to define explicitly a
consistent set of units as part of the solver input for FEA model definition. The
STEP standard can capture this information when constructing model contexts and
associated unit entities. The pilot models do not explicitly specify a system of
units, however, there is an implied use of the English inch-pound force-second
system due to the existence of recognized material property values. While it may be
possible to deduce a likely system of units for a given input file, it is
recommended that direct user input define explicitly which system of units applies.
How to specify this information for the conversion process is an active area of
development and discussion.

[[cls-4.1]]
=== Analysis Product Metadata

The right side of <<fig3>> represents the AP209 ed2 analysis product. The figure
hides many entities that deal with metadata about the product for the sake of
clarity. <<fig4>> includes more of these entities and categorizes the metadata of
the analysis product; this figure was created from an early STEP file generated for
the pilot study using the 1st pilot study model.

[[fig4]]
.AP209 ed2 Analysis Product Categories
image::img04.png[]

The details of the analysis product model metadata are discussed in Volume 1 of this
handbook; the reader is encouraged to review those topics.

This document expands on the lower right corner of <<fig4>>; it captures the
definitions of the finite element pilot models and the resultant control structures
not shown in the figure. The contents of this part of the data model are documented
in detail in the ISO 10303-104 Integrated application resource: Finite element
analysis document (Part 104). Part 104, the associated schema definitions and the
Recommended Practice for AP209 ed2 are the primary sources of information needed to
map the native solver information (NASTRAN) found in the pilot project input and
output files, to the AP209 ed2 data models and produce the familiar Part 21 STEP
file representation.
