== Introduction

The CAx Interoperability Forum (CAx-IF) is part of the Model-Based Interoperability
Forum (MBx-IF), which is a joint effort between AFNeT, PDES, Inc. and prostep ivip.
An interoperability forum is a logical collection of a user group and an implementer
group, focused on specific capabilities of a named standard, in this case ISO 10303
STEP.

* The *User Group* is comprised of industry representatives, all members of at least
one of the Interoperability Forum hosting organizations. The group will define and
prioritize use cases, derive requirements and related validation properties as well
as document user best practices.
* The *Implementor Group* is a group of software vendors, 3rd party integrators, and
independent implementors, all members of at least one of the Interoperability Forum
hosting organizations, that define recommended practices based on the prioritized use
cases provided by the user group and validate them in test rounds.

The objectives of the CAx-IF concentrate primarily on testing the interoperability
and compliance of STEP processors based on all Editions of AP242, and include
documenting and prioritizing use cases, requirements and best practices to ensure
completeness and consistency of the STEP standard and it implementations,
implementing new functionalities based on users' requirements while ensuring these do
not adversely affect existing implementations, avoiding roadblocks by establishing
agreed-upon approaches, and increasing user confidence in STEP by providing
interoperable commercial software products.

The CAx-IF's Implementor Group performs two test rounds per year for each domain and
presents summary results to the user community. Furthermore, Recommended Practices
are developed, and issues are reported to the standards development community.

The test rounds in general combine testing of synthetic and production models.
Production models will in most cases be provided by the user companies of the
organizations AFNeT, PDES, Inc., and prostep ivip Association. When production models
are not available from the user companies, "production-like" models will be solicited
from the various CAx-IF participants.

This test suite includes synthetic models for testing the following capabilities:
Product Manufacturing Information (PMI), both as Graphic Presentation and as Semantic
Representation, 3D Tessellated Geometry, Kinematics, Composite Materials, Assembly
Structure with External References as well as Kinematic Mechanism definitions in
AP242 Domain Model XML format, and Persistent Entity IDs.

=== Functionality tested in this Test Round

Functionality tested in this round relates to:

* *Product Manufacturing Information (PMI)* describes the capability to embed
information about dimensions, tolerances and other parameters which are necessary
input for the manufacturing and measuring of the part from the 3D model. In this
round, the focus will be on the two approaches for the transfer of PMI in the 3D model:

** "Tessellated Presentation" refers to breaking down each annotation into
tessellated elements as supported by AP242 and exchanging them as geometry. This
preserves the exact shape of the annotation but is human readable only.
** "Semantic Representation" refers to the intelligent transfer of PMI data in an
associative and reusable way. This scenario aims towards driving downstream usage and
later modifications of the model. The data is machine-readable, but not necessarily
visible in the 3D model. The test also includes additional presentation data, which
can be linked to the corresponding PMI representation.
** "Assembly-level PMI" applies the concept above to assemblies, where PMI elements
are defined between different parts, or part instances. Concepts such as Saved Views
and Cross-Highlighting shall work in the same way.

* *AP242 Domain Model XML* is an implementation format introduced with AP242, and the
designated process format for many applications in the aerospace and automotive
industries. It will be used in combination with geometry formats matching the
respective requirement. In the CAx-IF, the geometry files will be in STEP Part 21
format. The XML files contain the assembly structure and part master information. The
tests, which are conducted jointly with the PDM-IF, primarily aim at improving
CAx-PDM interoperability by ensuring that the different types of systems correctly
cope with the different levels of information.

* *Composite Materials* are made by layering various plies of material on top of each
other. They can be defined in an implicit-precise way, by giving the laminate tables,
ply boundaries, orientation, materials, and laminated cores; or in an
explicit-tessellated way by calculating the resulting 3D Tessellated Solid. Both
representations can be linked to each other.

* *Kinematics* is a capability in AP242 that allows describing the motion of parts over
time and in relation to each other. This includes the definition of mechanisms with
joints and constraints, defining the kinematic relationships between the parts, as
well as motions, which are defined by capturing the positions of the moving parts at
discrete points in time. To cover Aerospace as well as Automotive use cases, and to
increase the range of participating systems, this capability is being tested jointly
with the JT-IF.

* *Persistent Entity IDs* enable the ability to track a product's model information,
specifically topological elements, during design iteration. This will allow consuming
applications to update their designs based on the original model when changes are
submitted.

* *User Defined Parameters* at the part level as well as at the geometry level are used
to convey data that drives certain aspects of a model, e.g., geometric features, or
engineering notes and requirements that manufacturing must comply with. This may also
include custom-defined properties. A target application shall be able to pick up on
these and make appropriate decisions for downstream processes.

=== General testing instructions for this round

The general procedures for communication of models and statistics are outlined in a
separate document, entitled 'General Testing Instructions'. The document can be
retrieved from the CAx Interoperability Forum web sites. The latest version is v2.0,
dated 23 June 2023.

=== Testing Schedule

The following schedule has been agreed upon for Round 53J:

[[fig1]]
.CAx-IF Round 53J Schedule
image::img01.png[]

=== Copyrights on Test Cases

==== CAx-IF

None of the production test cases which were provided by the AFNeT, PDES, Inc. and
prostep ivip member companies may be publicly released for any purpose. The test
cases can be freely distributed among the CAx-IF members and can be used for any
purposes that are related to CAx-IF testing (i.e., testing, documentation of testing
efforts, etc.), if a reference to the originating company is made.

The test cases must not be used for any purposes other than CAx-IF testing or outside
of AFNeT, PDES, Inc. and prostep ivip. Test cases provided by the LOTAR project for
testing of specific capabilities are applicable to the same restrictions and may not
be used outside LOTAR or the CAx-IF.

==== NIST

The test cases developed at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
are not subject to copyright protection and are in the public domain. NIST assumes no
responsibility for the components of the test system for use by other parties and
makes no guarantees, expressed or implied, about their quality, reliability, or any
other characteristic. The use of the CAD systems to create the Test Models does not
imply a recommendation or endorsement by NIST.

For more details, read the disclaimer at https://go.usa.gov/xuh9n
