[[cls-11]]
== Cable and Wire Occurrences

Let's start with the IEC definitions of what a wire and cable is:

* *wire* [IEV ref 151-12-28]: flexible cylindrical conductor, with or without an
insulating covering, the length of which is large with respect to its
cross-sectional dimensions
+
--
NOTE: The cross-section of a wire may have any shape, but the term "wire" is not
generally used for ribbons or tapes.
--
* *cable* [IEV ref 151-12-38]: assembly of one or more conductors and/or optical
fibres, with a protective covering and possibly filling, insulating and protective
material

For the purpose of AP242 the definitions may be used in a slightly different way.
Important is that a wire has exactly one conductor, but it might be rigid (not
flexible). And it is recommended to use cable only if there are two or more
conductors.

[[fig18]]
.Terminals & TransportFeatures for Wires & Cables
image::img18.png[]

Cables and Wires as raw materials are treated as Parts with the PartTypes attribute
set to the PartCategoryEnum values "cable" respectively "wire". Cables and wires are
typically produced and sold in big lengths that are coiled. The length is often much
bigger that the length needed for a particular usage and so a piece of wire or cable
has to be cut from the coil in a certain length. Because of this the Part for the
raw material get for PartType the additional PartCategoryEnum values "raw material
by length".

If the exact cut length is know it can directly be specified as a quantity with
unit, e.g. 1.5 m. Otherwise a criterion can be specified e.g. "not determined in
engineering; to be defined by manufacturer".

CableOccurrence and WireOccurrence are Occurrences of Parts with a PartTypes that
has the _PartCategoryEnum_ values "cable" respectively "wire". Because each
_CableOccurrence_ and _WireOccurrence_ has a particular length they are subtypes of
_QuantifiedOccurrence_.

So far we looked only to _OccurrenceTerminals_ that are defined by _PartTerminals_.
There is another class of _OccurrenceTerminals_ that are defined locally as part of
an OccurrenceTransportFeature which is defined by a PartTransportFeature.

Because the raw cable and wire material are typically rolled up and protected by
some isolation, it is not possible to identify any particular _PartTerminal_ on that
raw material. So instead of identifying _PartTerminals_ we only identify conductors
(one or several) using _WireIdentification_. Both _PartTerminal_ and
_WireIdentification_ are subtypes of _PartShapeElement_. A _WireIdentification_ has
a pre-defined property named _Code_ for the "wire colour-based identification code".

Cable and wire parts are raw material; they do no have specific _PartTerminals_.
_CableOccurrences_ and _WireOccurrences_ on the other hand have terminals. These
terminals are derived from the _WireIdentifications_ of the raw materials.

In the same way we could have e.g. a GND-bar and define any number of terminals on it.
